# KickStarter Analysis (Excel)

## Background\
Over two billion dollars have been raised using the massively successful crowdfunding service, Kickstarter, but not every project has found success. Of the over 300,000 projects launched on Kickstarter, only a third have made it through the funding process with a positive outcome.

Since getting funded on Kickstarter requires meeting or exceeding the project's initial goal, many organizations spend months looking through past projects in an attempt to discover some trick to finding success. In this project, I will organize and analyze a database of four thousand past projects in order to uncover any hidden trends.

## Trends & Observations\
1. Given the provided data, we can conclude that most of Kickstarter projects (70 %) fall under four categories, which are “theater”, “music”, “film&video”, and “technology”.  Projects in “theatre”,“music”, and “film&video”, on average, succeed more often than fail. Meanwhile, campaigns in the field of technology seem to have roughly equal chances to fail or succeed. However, if we equate canceled campaigns to failed ones, then it seems like campaigns in technology tend to fail rather than succeed. Fig.1-Campaigns in sub-category “plays” have the highest chance of succeeding (65%). Then come projects categorized as “rock”, “documentary”, “hardware”, and “indie rock”. Campaigns in “science fiction”, “art books”, and “audio” have always been canceled. Projects in “web”, “animation”, “gadgets”, “children’s 37204017830202449312018021311714012714083954030020910380803402004006008001000120014001600Campaign status vs. categorysuccessfulfailedcanceled
Darya Rudych HW1books”, “drama”, “fiction”, “jazz”, “mobile games”, “people”, “places”, and “video games”have100% failure rate. Fig. 2-January is the start month of most of the fundraising campaigns. However, roughly 50% of them ended in success. Campaigns started in February-May on average have 60% chance of ending in success. Out of these 4 months, projects startedin May are most likely to succeed. Projects started in November and July are most likely to be cancelled. Overall, because the probability margins for success/failure of the campaigns are fairly small, it is hard to evaluate how launch month will affect the campaign’s outcome. In general, the data given seems to support the fact that Dec-Jan being the biggest holiday spending season for most people in the West is consequently a bad time to start a Kickstarter campaign as people are spending their money elsewhere. 11For this part I had to do additional calculations to calculate the outcome percentage. 020040060080010001200successfullivefailedcanceled
Darya Rudych HW12.What are some of the limitations of this dataset?I found the status“cancelled”to be problematic as there is not any other data that would help us differentiate cancelled projects from projects that failed. While the cancelled projects in most cases are underfunded, there were a few that reached their target budget or were even overfunded. This leads to a lot of questions as to how we should define the status of the campaign. Another,limitation of this dataset is the fact that data is not normalized i.e. is not on the same scale. For instance, to come up with the probabilities of the campaign failing or succeeding if started at a certain time, I had to do additional calculations to be able to compare one month to another. While the charts produce a visualization that helps us eyeball which campaign categories, on average, fail and/or succeed, these estimates are not very reliable. In addition, the column “percent funded” For example, according to Fig. 1 projects intechnology seemto have a higher likelihood of failing or being cancelledthan succeeding. However, this chart disregards the fact that projects in technology are also those among the most overfunded projects. This produces mixed conclusions. 3.What are some other possible tables/graphs that we could create?I would add the columnsfor probability of a failure/success by dividing failed/successful projects under each category by a number of all campaigns under that category and would build a chart based on that, similar to what we did for the bonus part. 




